Update

All implemented tables are functional.
Template was re made from scratch + under went a few critical changes
-- 


Begin test queries -- add any necessary data to the schema
reference external notes

Target tables & joins 
use input template
Clone, stage & backup schema through out testing


// query notes

q2
join tables:  jobseeker, experience
select all candidates that have more than 5 years experience software testing 

in order to successfully execute this- we need to add 2-3 jobseekers with those stats 


q3

List all the positions available for software developers 
including the qualifications and years of experience required.

join tables: joblisting, req_qualifications, req_experience

To execute this query we need to set up a few things 

List of software developer positions // we have 3 avail positions atm 
then 
to each position we need to include the req_qualifications: e.g University degree, tafe degree etc 

Finally we include req_experience in THAT field + req years experience

data is queried into the DB lets begin the multi table join 


write out some 'psuedo' explainations for the remaining queries to help get a better understanding of the process & sequence


--  --  --  --  --  --  --

q4
Display the ‘best fit’ list of candidate for a specific database analyst position

join tables: jobseekers, js_experience

firstly, we need to create a database analyst job into our DB: might already be there. cont 

then we need to create 2-3 candidates that have data analyst experience 
we will vary there qualificatioins and experience to produce varied results 

How should we filter for the "best fit" ? 

perhaps we should stage our filters & prioritze certain attributes over others 

first we will find all candidates that have data analyst experience 
from that list we will sort the candidates from the most years experience in that role
sort by years experience in decending order 






q5
Display the visa status for all web designers. Include the candidate name, surname and phone number.

join tables: jobseekers, visaStatus 

find all candidates that have web designer experience -- display first & last name & phone number 
join & display visa status for each. 

To create variety lets have candidates with & without visas 



q6
List the position title, description, responsibilities, skills requirements, and years of experience, salary range,
location, and contract type for all positions where the salary is over $150 000. Group the results by position type.

join tables: joblisting, req_skills, req_experience

make sure we include all columns that are referenced above. 

this query needs a GROUP BY position type 
